One of the challenges of
machine translation is that,
given a French sentence, there could
be multiple English translations that
are equally good translations
of that French sentence.
So how do you evaluate a machine
translation system if there are multiple
equally good answers,
unlike, say, image recognition
where there's one right answer?
You just measure accuracy.
If there are multiple great answers,
how do you measure accuracy?
The way this is done conventionally is
through something called the BLEU score.
So, in this optional video,
I want to share with you,
I want to give you a sense
of how the BLEU score works.
Let's say you are given a French
sentence Le chat est sur le tapis.
And you are given a reference,
human generated translation of this,
which is the the cat is on the mat.
But there are multiple,
pretty good translations of this.
So a different human,
different person might translate
it as there is a cat on the mat.
And both of these are actually just
perfectly fine translations of
the French sentence.
What the BLEU score does is given
a machine generated translation,
it allows you to automatically
compute a score that
measures how good is
that machine translation.
And the intuition is so
long as the machine generated translation
is pretty close to any of
the references provided by humans,
then it will get a high BLEU score.
BLEU, by the way, stands for
bilingual evaluation,
Understudy.
So in the theater world,
an understudy is someone that learns
the role of a more senior actor so
they can take over the role of
the more senior actor, if necessary.
And motivation for BLEU is that,
whereas you could ask human
evaluators to evaluate
the machine translation system,
the BLEU score is an understudy,
could be a substitute for
having humans evaluate every output
of a machine translation system.
So the BLEU score was due to
Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos,
Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu.
This paper has been incredibly
influential, and is,
actually, quite a readable paper.
So I encourage you to take
a look if you have time.
So, the intuition behind the BLEU
score is we're going to look
at the machine generated output and
see if the types of words it
generates appear in at least one
of the human generated references.
And so these human generated
references would be provided as part
of the depth set or
as part of the test set.
Now, let's look at
a somewhat extreme example.
Let's say that the machine
translation system abbreviating
machine translation is MT.
So the machine translation, or the MT
output, is the the the the the the the.
So this is clearly a pretty
terrible translation.
So one way to measure how good
the machine translation output is,
is to look at each the words in the output
and see if it appears in the references.
And so, this would be called a precision
of the machine translation output.
And in this case, there are seven words
in the machine translation output.
And every one of these 7 words appears in
either Reference 1 or Reference 2, right?
So the word the appears
in both references.
So each of these words looks like
a pretty good word to include.
So this will have a precision of 7 over 7.
It looks like it was a great precision.
So this is why the basic precision
measure of what fraction of
the words in the MT output
also appear in the references.
This is not a particularly useful measure,
because it seems to imply that this
MT output has very high precision.
So instead, what we're going
to use is a modified precision
measure in which we will give each
word credit only up to the maximum
number of times it appears
in the reference sentences.
So in Reference 1, the word,
the, appears twice.
In Reference 2, the word,
the, appears just once.
So 2 is bigger than 1, and so
we're going to say that the word,
the, gets credit up to twice.
So, with a modified precision,
we will say that,
it gets a score of 2 out of 7,
because out of 7 words,
we'll give it a 2 credits for appearing.
So here, the denominator is the count
of the number of times the word,
the, appears of 7 words in total.
And the numerator is the count of the
number of times the word, the, appears.
We clip this count, we take a max,
or we clip this count, at 2.
So this gives us the modified
precision measure.
Now, so far,
we've been looking at words in isolation.
In the BLEU score, you don't want to
just look at isolated words.
You maybe want to look at
pairs of words as well.
Let's define a portion of
the BLEU score on bigrams.
And bigrams just means pairs of
words appearing next to each other.
So now, let's see how we could use
bigrams to define the BLEU score.
And this will just be a portion
of the final BLEU score.
And we'll take unigrams, or single words,
as well as bigrams, which means pairs
of words into account as well as
maybe even longer sequences of words,
such as trigrams,
which means three words pairing together.
So, let's continue our
example from before.
We have to same Reference 1 and
Reference 2.
But now let's say
the machine translation or
the MT System has
a slightly better output.
The cat the cat on the mat.
Still not a great translation, but
maybe better than the last one.
So here, the possible bigrams are,
well there's the cat, but ignore case.
And then there's cat the,
that's another bigram.
And then there's the cat again, but
I've already had that, so let's skip that.
And then cat on is the next one.
And then on the, and the mat.
So these are the bigrams in
the machine translation output.
And so let's count up, How many
times each of these bigrams appear.
The cat appears twice, cat the appears
once, and the others all appear just once.
And then finally, let's define the clipped
count, so count, and then subscript clip.
And to define that,
let's take this column of numbers, but
give our algorithm credit only up
to the maximum number of times
that that bigram appears in either
Reference 1 or Reference 2.
So the cat appears a maximum of
once in either of the references.
So I'm going to clip that count to 1.
Cat the, well, it doesn't appear
in Reference 1 or Reference 2, so
I clip that to 0.
Cat on, yep, that appears once.
We give it credit for once.
On the appears once, give that credit for
once, and the mat appears once.
So these are the clipped counts.
We're taking all the counts and clipping
them, really reducing them to be no
more than the number of times that bigram
appears in at least one of the references.
And then, finally,
our modified bigram precision will
be the sum of the count clipped.
So that's 1, 2, 3,
4 divided by the total number of bigrams.
That's 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, so 4 out of 6 or
two-thirds is the modified
precision on bigrams.
So let's just formalize
this a little bit further.
With what we had developed on unigrams,
we defined this modified precision
computed on unigrams as P subscript 1.
The P stands for precision and
the subscript 1 here means that
we're referring to unigrams.
But that is defined as
sum over the unigrams.
So that just means sum over the words that
appear in the machine translation output.
So this is called y hat of count clip,
Of that unigram.
Divided by sum of our unigrams in
the machine translation output of count,
number of counts of that unigram, right?
And so this is what we had gotten I guess
is 2 out of 7, 2 slides back.
So the 1 here refers to unigram,
meaning we're looking at
single words in isolation.
You can also define Pn
as the n-gram version,
Instead of unigram, for n-gram.
So this would be sum over the n-grams
in the machine translation output
of count clip of that n-gram divided by
sum over n-grams of
the count of that n-gram.
And so these precisions, or
these modified precision scores,
measured on unigrams or on bigrams,
which we did on a previous slide,
or on trigrams,
which are triples of words,
or even higher values of n for
other n-grams.
This allows you to measure the degree
to which the machine translation
output is similar or
maybe overlaps with the references.
And one thing that you could probably
convince yourself of is if the MT
output is exactly the same as
either Reference 1 or Reference 2,
then all of these values P1, and P2 and
so on, they'll all be equal to 1.0.
So to get a modified precision of 1.0,
you just have to be exactly
equal to one of the references.
And sometimes it's possible to
achieve this even if you aren't
exactly the same as any of the references.
But you kind of combine them
in a way that hopefully still
results in a good translation.
Finally, Finally,
let's put this together to
form the final BLEU score.
So P subscript n is the BLEU
score computed on n-grams only.
Also the modified precision
computed on n-grams only.
And by convention to compute one number,
you compute P1,
P2, P3 and P4, and combine them
together using the following formula.
It's going to be the average, so sum from
n = 1 to 4 of Pn and divide that by 4.
So basically taking the average.
By convention the BLEU score is defined
as, e to the this, then exponentiations,
and linear operate, exponentiation
is strictly monotonically increasing
operation and then we actually adjust
this with one more factor called the,
BP penalty.
So BP, Stands
for brevity penalty.
The details maybe aren't super important.
But to just give you a sense,
it turns out that if you output very short
translations, it's easier
to get high precision.
Because probably most of the words
you output appear in the references.
But we don't want translations
that are very short.
So the BP, or the brevity penalty,
is an adjustment factor that penalizes
translation systems that output
translations that are too short.
So the formula for
the brevity penalty is the following.
It's equal to 1 if your machine
translation system actually outputs
things that are longer than the human
generated reference outputs.
And otherwise is some
formula like that that
overall penalizes shorter translations.
So, in the details you
can find in this paper.
So, once again,
earlier in this set of courses,
you saw the importance of having
a single real number evaluation metric.
Because it allows you to try out two
ideas, see which one achieves a higher
score, and then try to stick with
the one that achieved the higher score.
So the reason the BLEU
score was revolutionary for
machine translation was because this gave
a pretty good, by no means perfect, but
pretty good single real
number evaluation metric.
And so that accelerated the progress of
the entire field of machine translation.
I hope this video gave you a sense
of how the BLEU score works.
In practice, few people would
implement a BLEU score from scratch.
There are open source implementations
that you can download and
just use to evaluate your own system.
But today, BLEU score is used to evaluate
many systems that generate text,
such as machine translation systems,
as well as the example I showed briefly
earlier of image captioning systems
where you would have a system,
have a neural network
generated image caption.
And then use the BLEU score to see how
much that overlaps with maybe a reference
caption or multiple reference captions
that were generated by people.
So the BLEU score is a useful single
real number evaluation metric to use
whenever you want your algorithm
to generate a piece of text.
And you want to see whether it has
similar meaning as a reference
piece of text generated by humans.
This is not used for speech recognition,
because in speech recognition,
there's usually one ground truth.
And you just use other measures to see
if you got the speech transcription on
pretty much, exactly word for
word correct.
But for things like image captioning,
and multiple captions for a picture,
it could be about equally good or
for machine translations.
There are multiple translations,
but equally good.
The BLEU score gives you a way to
evaluate that automatically and
therefore speed up your development.
So with that, I hope you have
a sense of how the BLEU score works.